Add docs for containerize frames feature (#302)
AcademySoftwareFoundation/opencue.io: content/docs/Other guides/containerized_frames.md

---
title: "Running RQD at Docker mode"
linkTitle: "Running RQD at Docker mode"
weight: 3
date: 2024-11-06
description: >

>   Running rqd with docker mode so that each frame is launched
>   at its own container

Author: ```suggestion
 Running RQD in Docker mode, where each frame is executed within its own container
```

```toml
[docker.config]
# Setting this to True requires all the additional "docker.[]" sections to be filled
RUN_ON_DOCKER=True
DOCKER_SHELL_PATH=/usr/bin/sh

# This section is only required if RUN_ON_DOCKER=True
# List of volume mounts following docker run's format, but replacing = with :
[docker.mounts]
TEMP=type:bind,source:/tmp,target:/tmp,bind-propagation:slave
NET=type:bind,source:/net,target:/net,bind-propagation:slave

# This section is only required if RUN_ON_DOCKER=True
#  - keys represent OSs this rqd is capable of executing jobs in
#  - values are docker image tags
[docker.images]
centos7=centos7.3:latest
rocky9=rocky9.3:latest
```

Each key reported under `[docker.images]` will be used as an OS reported to Cuebot by RQD.
In the example above, rqd will report its OS as `centos7,rocky9`. Whenever cuebot finds a list on
the OS fields, it will interpret this RQD is capable of launching images for any of the OSs on the list.

## Requirements

The environment your RQD instance is running on needs to have Docker installed and RQD's user needs to
have permissions to execute docker commands. Besides that, the optional pip requirement `docker` needs

> to be added to requirements.txt.

Reviewer: Current:
"Besides that, the optional pip requirement `docker` needs to be added to requirements.txt."

Suggested:
"Additionally, the `docker` Python package must be included in `requirements.txt` if RQD is to interact with Docker via Python."

## Docker swarm setup tips

If you're planning to run RQD itself on docker, docker swarm has some limitations that need to be taken
into consideration for this setup.

### Docker-in-docker is not recommended

> 

Reviewer: Current: "Docker-in-docker is not recommended"
Suggested: "Avoid using Docker-in-Docker (DinD)"

If you want to know the reason why it is not recommend, read this
[article](https://jpetazzo.github.io/2015/09/03/do-not-use-docker-in-docker-for-ci/).
 To avoid this scenario, you should mount in docker.sock with

> `--mount type=bind,source=/var/run/docker.sock,target=/var/run/docker.sock,ro`.

Reviewer: Current:
"To avoid this scenario, you should mount in docker.sock with..."

Suggested:
"To avoid this, mount the Docker socket with..."

This will give rqd in your container access to the docker daemon running on the host.

> Besides that, your should also run with `--pid=host` because rqd needs access to the

Author: ```suggestion
Besides that, you should also run with `--pid=host` because rqd needs access to the
```

> Besides that, your should also run with `--pid=host` because rqd needs access to the

Author: ```suggestion
Besides that, you should also run with `--pid=host` because rqd needs access to the
```

processes launched from inside of the frame container with their original pid.

But this brings with it one complications. Docker swarm mode doesn't support `--pid=host`
(See this [Issue](https://github.com/moby/moby/issues/25303)).
The way around this docker swarm limitation is to create a wrapper service that

> runs RQD using docker run. You service wrapper can be defined as:

Author: ```suggestion
runs RQD using docker run. Your service wrapper can be defined as:
```

```Dockerfile
FROM docker

COPY docker_wrapper.sh .

ENTRYPOINT "./docker_wrapper.sh"
```

docker_wrapper.sh
```bash
#!/bin/sh

> docker pull RQD_IMAGE

Reviewer: Issue: The script does not check whether the image pull was successful.

Fix: Add error handling for docker pull:

```sh
if ! docker pull "$RQD_IMAGE"; then
  echo "Failed to pull $RQD_IMAGE"
  exit 1
fi
```

Author: I don't see a point in checking for the error and returning 1 if the outcome of an error itself will be to return 1. The message output of a failure on docker pull will also be informative by itself.

# Ensure the last container got removed, as we're creating named containers
set +e
docker stop -t $STOP_GRACE_SECONDS rqd
docker rm rqd

> set -e

Reviewer: Issue: `set +e` is used to ignore errors but might lead to unnoticed failures.

Fix: Instead of globally disabling error handling, handle specific errors:

```bash
docker stop -t "$STOP_GRACE_SECONDS" rqd || echo "Failed to stop previous RQD container"
docker rm rqd || echo "Failed to remove previous RQD container"
```

Author: I don't think I'm seeing your point here. I want errors to be returned everywhere but in the section surrounded by the `set +e` and `set -e` clauses. Setting it as global would completely defeat the purpose.

# Handle SIGINT and SIGTERM and ask the children container to stop respecting its stop_grace period
handle_exit() {
    echo "Received a request to terminate"
    docker stop -t $STOP_GRACE_SECONDS rqd || true
}

> trap 'handle_exit' INT TERM

Reviewer: Improve termination signal handling

Current:

```bash
trap 'handle_exit' INT TERM
```

Fix: Add proper logging:

```bash
trap 'echo "Received termination signal, stopping container..."; handle_exit' INT TERM
```

Author: The handle function echos a message as its first step. I don't see a point in also echoing a message here.
